Malware based revocation proposal (#10)
cabforum/code-signing: docs/CSBR.md

The CA MUST revoke a Code Signing Certificate within one (1) business day if the Subscriber requests in writing that the CA revoke the Certificate or notifies the CA that the original certificate request was not authorized and does not retroactively grant authorization.

#### 4.9.1.3 Revocation Based on Reported or Detected Compromise or Use in Suspect Code

> Except for cases that fall under Section 4.9.1.1, all incidents that lead the CA to believe that the certificate private key is compromised or is being used for Suspect Code, CAs SHALL revoke the Code Signing Certificate in accordance with and within the following maximum timeframes. Nothing herein prohibits a CA from revoking a Code Signing Certificate prior to these timeframes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Except for cases that fall under Section 4.9.1.1, all incidents that lead the CA to believe that the Subscriber's Private Key is compromised or is being used for Suspect Code, CAs SHALL revoke the corresponding Code Signing Certificate in accordance with and within the following maximum time frames. Nothing herein prohibits a CA from revoking a Code Signing Certificate prior to these time frames.

```

Author: Good catch. Thanks!

Author: Resolved in [8bd87c3](https://github.com/cabforum/code-signing/pull/10/commits/8bd87c3e3a76236d79aecdc34362b8b2fc8b7daf)

> Except for cases that fall under Section 4.9.1.1, if, while investigating a problem report, the CA determines the Subscriber's Private Key is likely compromised or being used for Suspect Code, the CA SHALL revoke the corresponding Code Signing Certificate in accordance with and within the following maximum time frames. Nothing herein prohibits a CA from revoking a Code Signing Certificate prior to these time frames.

Reviewer 2: Can we omit the term "likely" from this update? This term introduces a layer of uncertainty or gray area about the key compromise, where it would be much clearer that key compromise must be proven.

Author: @chrisbn This does somewhat come back to the point of there being no default way of proving key compromise. However I think it could work to set this at "...is compromised or likely being used for Suspect Code...."
Thoughts?

> 1.  The CA MUST contact the Subscriber within 24 hours after the CA received the initial problem report.

Reviewer 3: Again, for consistency and accuracy, since it is possible for the CA to discover the incident (without an initial report), please update to:

"The CA MUST contact the Subscriber within 24 hours after the CA received the initial problem report or discovered the incident."

> 2.  The CA MUST request the Subscriber send an acknowledgement to the CA within 72 hours of receipt of the request.

Reviewer 2: To clarify the sending/receiving timeline and CA/Subscriber sending/receiving, could we say:
1. The CA MUST contact the Subscriber to request an acknowledgement within 24 hours after the CA received the initial problem report or discovered the incident.
2. The CA MUST request the Subscriber to respond with an acknowledgement. The acknowledgement MUST be provided within 72 hours of the CA sending the request.

Author: I've added an alternative

>    a.  If the Subscriber responds within 72 hours, the CA and Subscriber MAY determine a "reasonable date" to revoke the certificate based on discussions with the CA. The revocation date MUST NOT be more than 7 days after the incident was discovered.

Reviewer: 7 business days or 7 calendar days? 4.9.1.1 uses business days.

Author: Calendar days. Should we add that as clarification?

Reviewer: Yeah, that would be a useful clarification as 4.9.1.1 uses business days but this section uses both hours and "days" as units of time. Being explicit will remove any ambiguity regarding the day-counting method.

Author: [a9b412f](https://github.com/cabforum/code-signing/pull/10/commits/a9b412f4b69ba790fce4cbc5549e17d6a6ed7e4e)

>    a.  If the Subscriber responds within 72 hours, the CA and Subscriber MAY determine a "reasonable date" to revoke the certificate based on discussions with the CA. The revocation date MUST NOT be more than 7 days after the incident was discovered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a.  If the Subscriber responds within 72 hours, the CA and Subscriber MAY determine a "reasonable date" to revoke the Certificate. The revocation date MUST NOT be more than 7 days after the incident was discovered.

```

Author: No objection from my end

Author: Resolved in [3b17fca](https://github.com/cabforum/code-signing/pull/10/commits/3b17fca46500acdccea4d6ee1c65cb39d3a1f941)

>    a.  If the Subscriber responds within 72 hours, the CA and Subscriber MAY determine a "reasonable date" to revoke the certificate. The revocation date MUST NOT be more than 7 calendar days after the incident was discovered.

Reviewer 3: For Consistency and accuracy, please consider updating to:

- "The revocation date MUST NOT be more than 7 calendar days after the CA received the initial problem report or discovered the incident."

Reviewer: I have a concern with the phrase "the incident was discovered", as it's fundamentally the same thing as "the CA is made aware of the incident". The problem with this language is that it's subjective and thus difficult to fulfill.

For example, it's unclear whether a researcher's email to a random CA sales rep is considered "discovery" of an incident and is subject to the timelines defined in this ballot. For this reason, I think the previous language (omitting the "or discovered the incident") provides clarity in regard to the CA's obligation to timely handle such incidents.

Author: @CBonnell  wouldn't the same apply though for "received the initial problem report". One could read an email sent to a sales rep containing an issue as a problem report, just not to the address specified by the CA?

Reviewer: Perhaps not explicit, but I read "problem report" as "Certificate Problem Report", which has well defined obligations for disclosure of the reporting address and subsequent handling of the report.

Author: @CBonnell I see. Trying to find some common ground here where the same process is followed when either the CA discovers the incident themselves, or get a report.

Trying to come up with a solution that will basically invoke the section if the CAs abuse or problem reporting department discovered the incident. However since there's no defined CA department name for this, I'm not sure that would make it any clearer.

Thoughts anyone?

Author: @chrisbn I think that makes sense and I like that approach. There are two occurrences of "initial problem report" in the section, both could be updates.
@CBonnell  your take on this?

Reviewer: As @chrisbn suggested, I think replacing "initial problem report" with "Certificate Problem Report" improves clarity.

>    a.  If the Subscriber responds within 72 hours, the CA and Subscriber MAY determine a "reasonable date" to revoke the certificate. The revocation date MUST NOT be more than 7 calendar days after the incident was discovered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a.  If the Subscriber responds within 72 hours, the CA and Subscriber MAY determine a "reasonable date" to revoke the certificate. The revocation date MUST NOT be more than 7 calendar days after the CA received the Certificate Problem Report.

```

Author: Thanks. I thought it was said twice, but apparently it was 3 times

>    b.  If CA does not receive a response, then the CA MUST revoke the certificate within 24 hours from the end of the response period.

Reviewer 2: What is the rationale for allowing less time for revocation if the CA does not receive a response? We may be assuming "if Subscriber does not respond it's malicious intent", but I don't think that's true in all cases.

Reviewer 2: response period is not a defined term, could we update it to "the end of the 72 hours period for the Subscriber to provide an acknowledgement".

Author: While I agree it's not true in all cases, I think the rationale for revoking earlier makes sense. If there is indeed signed suspect code, there's a real danger for Relying Parties, and it must be taken care of. subscribers not responding are still looking at pretty much a 4 day revocation window, while for SSL there's a maximum of 5. Imo, the damage suspect code can do, warrants this approach

Reviewer 2: With that explanation, the rationale for revoking earlier does indeed make sense.

While in the previous text "reasonable date" is definitely too open for interpretation, is it appropriate to immediately go to revoking within 7 days in case the Subscriber responds, the timeline that previously applied to case of a non-responding subscriber? 

Can I suggest "SHOULD within 7 days, MUST within 14 days" which would allow CAs to consider specific circumstances, but still putting an upper bound on the timeline compared to "reasonable date"?

Author: I'm open to hearing the opinion of others, but I do not feel 14 days is acceptable.

> A CA revoking a Certificate because the Certificate was associated with signed Suspect Code or other fraudulent or illegal conduct SHOULD provide all relevant information and risk indicators to other CAs, Application Software Suppliers, or industry groups. The CA SHOULD contact the Application Software Suppliers within 24 hours after the CA received the initial problem report or discovered the incident.

Author: It should be something the CA does by themselves. Note that CAs and industry groups are already in the existing BR language

> A CA revoking a Certificate because the Certificate was associated with signed Suspect Code or other fraudulent or illegal conduct SHOULD provide all relevant information and risk indicators to other CAs or industry groups. The CA SHOULD indicate whether its investigation found that the Suspect Code was a false positive or an inadvertent signing. The CA SHOULD contact the Application Software Suppliers within 24 hours after the CA is made aware of an incident involving use in Suspect Code.

Reviewer: I realize the text "its investigation found that the Suspect Code was a false positive" wasn't modified or added as part of this ballot but I'm wondering if we can improve that language in the scope of this ballot, mainly because I don't know what it means.

I *think* it's saying that CAs SHOULD report Suspect Code that turned out to be a false positive to other CAs. If it indeed carries that intent, then I'm struggling to understand why that practice would be beneficial to the ecosystem.

Author: Actually this is a SHOULD in case of actual positives, but I see the confusion. Would it be clearer if we switched places for the last 2 sentences?

Reviewer: I guess I'm still not seeing how switching the order of the final two sentences will help. There's seemingly a SHOULD-level obligation for the CA to indicate whether the Suspect Code was a false positive, i.e. the Suspect Code was actually legitimate and no action should have been taken. If the conclusion of the investigation is that there was no Suspect Code signed, then where is the CA "indicating" this?
